My project is Latin Epigraphy and Pedagogy.  I am creating a resource that allows a teacher to easily bring primary source material into a classroom.  Primary source material can enrich the learning experience, particularly when it comes to a historical language like Latin.  For a student, the ability to work with an real inscription carved by real Romans can make Latin REAL - through such immediacy of contact, the student becomes more aware that Latin is a language, not just an exercise in a textbook.

As I said before, my goal is to create a resource, not a tool.  This is not supposed to be something with one specific purpose that has to be scrapped in a year or two.  It is adaptable - the material can be used and reused in a variety of different ways because of the nature of the project.

To create this resource, I began by amassing a collection of my original photography under a Creative Commons license.  Then, similar to the Homer Multitext and the Josephus project, I put together digital diplomatic editions keyed to those images, as you can see **here**.  In order to make a more useful resource, I then decided to add a few more layers of analysis which could be access points into the material.  Within my digital diplomatic editions, I have marked prosopographic and geographic data and created indices of these characters and places.  

I also took a step away from the digital diplomatic editions and created a set of specific grammatical topics that the images illustrate, which are grouped under larger concepts.  This resulted in a sort of hierarchy of searchable citations for each image.  In a classroom, a teacher could easily find illustrations that fit with his or her current lesson - for example, if teaching the perfect active indicative, it is easy to start with the perfect tense, follow that node to the perfect active indicative, and then find all images with a perfect active indicative verb.  Alternatively, a teacher could start with a particular inscription, the Pons Fabricius in our case, and see all the labels associated with that image.  I say hierarchy, but in reality, this is the beginning of the RDF graph, a web of relationships that can be entered at any point.

Along with this manual analysis, there is also the possibility for automated analysis.  For example, we can run the XML documents of the texts through a morphological analysis and be able to cite down to a specific word in a specific line.  From a pedagogical perspective, this makes the texts searchable by the lemma of a word - a teacher could feasibly find inscriptions that use vocabulary already on the class vocabulary list!

All the material in my project, from the image citations to the inscriptions to the indices of grammatical topics, geographic data, etc., is automatically integrated into the RDF graph.  Each item has a citation and the citations are linked to each other, so starting at one item can lead you to a variety of content.  There are as many different access points into the material as there are content items, and as a result, the material is dynamic and allows for reading in different contexts: geographic, prosopographic, linguistic, grammatical.  It allows for automated analysis but it is also citable, making it adaptable for the user's needs.

However, it is not only adaptable for a user's needs - the ability to look at a body of dynamic material of this scope (or any scope) also can lead us to rethink our own curriculum.  When it comes to teaching Latin, we can quantitatively say that this particular set of inscriptions includes more perfect active indicative verbs - so if I were designing a first-year Latin curriculum using this material, I would teach that verb form first.  One can find inscriptions that all relate to a particular character or all mentioning a specific place and develop a cultural or historical lesson based on those inscriptions.  Unlike in a print text, this material does not have to be viewed or used in any one perspective.
